(upbeat music)
Pagination component.
We are going to make sort of a general,
use pagination component
because it's likely that you will use this
component for,
I don't know if you have lots of different types of data on
a page, you want to be able to use reuse this over and over.
So go into our components folder and make a new file.
And we will call that pagination.js,
and we'll do our regular song and dance of importing react
from react,
export default pagination,
or I always forget the word function.
Here we go.
Now, that pagination let's actually return a div,
just say, P pagination,
we'll go into,
we'll go into our Slice Masters.js page.
And we'll go ahead and use that.
So right here where we did this process, .env,
delete those and just put a pagination component in there
and then make sure you import, that pagination.
You see how this,
the errors here a little bit different,
that's because I changed
it to GATSBY-HOT-LOADER or fast refresh.
So if you're seeing that,
if you see different kinds of low things, that's great.
And I believe one of the benefits to this
is that when , I save,
it comes back from it.
So previously, if I broke the build,
like if I didn't import this pagination, and I used it,
it's broken and then, Oh, I forgot to import it.
And then you give it a save and then you'd have to go like a
sucker and go hit the refresh button.
But with this, with this fast refresh,
it's good enough just to refresh it for you, which is great.
Okay. So we have imported our pagination component.
We have gone ahead and used it in here,
and then we are working in, in here right now.
So there's a couple pieces of information that need to be
passed in via Props. In order for the pagination to work,
we need a, how many per page? we need the total count.
We need the current page that we're on.
We need the skip value
and we need the base value.
And I'll show you what the base is in just a sec.
Then we need to, make some more variables,
make some variables.
So we'll say cons, total pages is equal to Math.ceil,
and we could probably pass this value in, but whatever.
Well, let's calculate it again.
Total count divided by, per page.
Then we need some links for previous next and whether it has
a previous page and whether it doesn't have previous page,
we'll get those in just a sec.
So first thing we need to do is to create some links for the
previous and next pages. So we'll go here.
We'll give ourselves a link.
We'll import that link from Gatsby.
Let's say link to is equal to now.
Normally you'd just say like Slice Masters. Oops, sorry.
I got some curly brackets there.
Normally you just say like Slice Masters for slash and then
will interpolate the current page value in there.
But that then makes this not
flexible enough for other types
of content. So that's why we pass in this base value here.
And that will allow us to make this flexible.
So the base will be, like that.
And then the current page is going to be minus ,
minus one.
Okay.
So let's stop there for just a second.
We need to go back to our Slice Masters.js,
and pass all that data into our pagination component.
So we'll go here and pagination,
what do we need per page?
Does he go to parse,
per page that comes in?
Where does that come in? Gatsby dash Node,
page size.
Yeah. See, I'm,
I'm mixing my words here per page and page size.
They're the same thing.
Let's stick with page size.
So let's, rename that per page to page size,
and let's go back to our pagination and rename that
to page size
here in here. Okay, cool.
The page size is the data is going to be coming in from the
page context.
So we need to restructure that page context again,
that page context variable, is all of the data that was
passed in right here.
So page size is page context. That page size,
the total count is equal to,
SliceMasters.totalcount.
Again, remember we created that right here.
The current page is equal to
EVN
page context
dot
current page
and then one should say or one,
cause we might be on the first page and without the fourth
slash one on there,
our skip,
is page context
dot skip.
And then finally our base is going to be a forward slash
Slice Masters.
Okay. So all that data is being piped in.
We'll go back to our pagination component here and we will
actually, we don't need the forward slash on this here.
And we need a variable for the previous page.
Cause I don't like to do the math right inside of here.
So we'll hear, say,
const preview page is equal to the current page minus one.
And then we'll do the same thing for the next page.
That's just a current page plus one.
And we'll go here.
Link
is
prev
page,
and inside of that,
I'll just give myself a little arrow that says prev.
So this is just a Unicode arrow.
If you don't know how to,
I have a little shortcut for those.
If you don't know how to get those,
just Google Unicode arrow,
and you'll be able to copy and paste it.
So we have our previous,
let's see, does that work?
So we'll go to Slice Masters four slash three,
and then if I click on it, it brings me to two.
It brings me to one and then it goes to zero.
We'll have to we'll fix that in just a second. Okay.
Now duplicate that and we'll go to the next page.
Let's say,
next.
Okay, So we've got our previous and the next one.
It allows me to go back and forth.
I like it.
Let's take care of the fact that you can ,
go to page six and page zero when they do not exist.
So we'll make some more variables here.
So that const has next page is equal to,
if the next page,
is less or equal to the total pages ,
that is going to be true or false.
And then we'll do the same thing for has preview page.
And that is if the previous page is greater or equal to one,
that will tell us if we have a previous page,
and then we can go down to these links here.
I'll just say disabled.
Once you go to,
bang has pre-phase and as next page.
So you could also conditionally show and hide,
these values, with react.
Like you could check if it's there or not,
but I don't like doing that because as soon as you hit a
page where there is no previous,
the whole pagination shifts,
so I'd rather just make it unclickable I'm in gray it out.
And we, these will still work to click ,
even like let's go to page one,
they watch I'm going to click it
like putting disabled on a, an anchor link.
Doesn't actually do anything,
that only works for buttons,
but I'm gonna show you how to actually make it work with
some CSS once we get to that. Okay.
So that's our previous and next buttons,
but we also need the like one, two, three, four, five
that goes in the middle.
So what we'll do is we'll go in between here.
We'll use our own little trick arrayed out from,
length of total pages.
And now we will map over it,
with the underscore I ,
see this is just like we did in our gets. We know,
but now we're doing it in a react template.
And for each one,
we overturn a link tag,
that has,
the I plus one,
inside of it.
Let's see if that works,
that didn't work.
Why is it not showing up?
Maybe Gatsby needs it to have a, to value.
Otherwise it doesn't show up.
So let's just say link to,
and back ticks,
will say
the base,
Ford slash ,
I plus one.
Let's see if that works.
No nothing's showing up. Okay.
Y
let's depo this together right up from,
we have a length of 12 pages. And from each one we map,
if I replaced this with just a paragraph that says, Hey,
that doesn't show up. Okay.
Bring that back.
If I put some text here. Okay.
So our build is still working.
I believe, that this array is not,
being created,
right up from like the top pages.
So,
what I'll do,
is I'll put this in its own variable constant.
You don't have to do this. This is just me debugging.
I'll I'll bring it back and then console log that array.
Let's see if there's anything in there.
Yeah. Look at that.
Sucker sucker is empty.
So I'm to console log total pages,
None.
Okay.
So that means our total pages value,
is not being correctly done.
So let's console log total count,
undefined.
Ah, so total count,
is not being passed in properly.
So our math is not working. So we'll go here.
Total count is equal to, ah,
you know why it's because ,
the total count ,
value is not on Nodes.
It's a level higher.
So what we need to do is go to our data total count here,
and we'll say data.SliceMasters.totalcount.
There we go.
Alright.
So we're back up and running.
I'm going to bring this array ,
back,
here.
Now we've got one, two, three, four, five showing up.
One thing,
that I want is if I click on one,
I actually just want it to go to Ford slash Slice Masters,
not Ford slash Slice Masters four slash one.
So we can, we can fix that by going,
here, and I'll say,
if I is greater than zero.
So if it's one,
then,
we will return.
I plus one,
otherwise we returned just a blank string.
And if we click on one,
it goes to four slash Slice Masters.
But Oh it looks like,
our pagination is not showing up because total
pages is not anything.
And that's likely because,
the page size,
that's why, Cause our page size,
gets passed in via page context.
But when you go to Forrest slash Slice Masters,
this page is not being generated by Gatsby Node.
That page is being generated by simply just being in
page dot js.
So,
we let's modify this,
to,
be the old way.
Parse env,
I'll say process,
dot env,
dot Gatsby underscore page on square size.
Gotta spell process. Right.
There we go. Okay.
That fixed it for us next, next, next.
Okay.
So everything seems to be working
and now we just gotta slap
some CSS on it, so it doesn't look awful.
So let's go and make some pagination styled.
So go back to our pagination.js.
We'll say const pagination styles is equal to styled,
dot div,
got an import style.
Ooh, that was wrong.
That one. Okay.
We'll display,
grid,
on that.
A grid.
We'll say align content,
center,
line items,
justify items.
If you don't know how to center,
something and CSS grid just put all of them on
and you've probably, it might work.
Let's pop this pagination styles on the surrounding div.
Here we go.
And that's wrong. This shouldn't have been grid.
This should be flex.
Yes. Okay.
We also want to pop a border one PX,
solid gray
margin to REM zero,
border radius,
five PX. Alright, so that is looking okay.
Then we'll grab each flex item. So we'll say,
and the direct descendant ,
on REM.
All right. All right.
I'll say flex one.
Boom.
I like it.
Margin zero.
We don't need margin. Zero on that does nothing border.
Right?
One PX solid,
far dash dash gray.
Okay.
These are not centering themselves.
We didn't do a text line center on the parent.
Okay. Looking good.
Looking good on the actual links themselves.
We'll say text decoration, none.
Take that red off. Good.
And then we'll say,
any of these items.
So, and we're still inside of this direct descendant.
Anything that has an Aria,
dash current property,
or a class
of current on it,
then we will say color,
far, dash dash red.
And,
here we go. One to see how this is working.
Or if we go to one page, one,
it's showing up.
But if we click on Slice Masters in the heading, this is,
this is goofy. Look at that skin.
Can you figure this one out,
click on one and then click on Slice Masters in the nav.
And it goes away.
And that is because of the trailing slash,
it's a bit of a
weird thing with Gatsby link.
It doesn't totally match it up if there's a trailing slash.
So to fix that,
we,
go back,
to our link here
and we'll say class name is equal to curly brackets.
And it will say if the current page
is equal to one,
and the index
is equal to zero,
then we'll give it a class of current.
Otherwise we give a class and nothing,
and it's not turning red. Let's inspect it.
Let's see the classes there.
What's wrong with our CSS.
Oh,
this seems to ampersand on it because it's not a child with
a current, it's the same element,
but also a class of current.
There we go. Okay.
So that's a little bit of weirdness around Gatsby link,
but we fixed it there.
Oh, next, next, next last thing is,
is if you are on page five and you want to click next,
you shouldn't be able to click that.
See how there's a disabled value on there.
So what we'll do,
is we'll say anything,
and
anything that has the disabled attribute,
then we'll say ,pointer
events,
none.
And that will make it not clickable or not keyboard
navigatable.
And then the color is going to be a gray color.
There we go.
And then what that does is you can't click it now and that's
just a nice way to disable it. This should also happen.
There we go on page one and if we go to Slice Masters,
it's, unclickable beautiful.
So that's how we do pagination in,
Gatsby pretty straight
forward.
Well,
last thing we need to do and I'll save this for the next
video, but that is when you click on an actual Slice master
themselves,
we should be able to see them as well as their bio.